The Joe Rogan experience. Give you an idea of where my energy comes from.
Let's imagine that you actually believe that males and females are equally
intelligent. Okay. Just fishery and equivalents.
Can I say LOL
then your then what would you be?
You'd be fascinated as to why you don't have males and females in an
intellectually, depending in equal numbers in any, in an,
in a demanding occupation. So you'd start saying, huh.
If I already assumed that males and females are equally intelligent,
I care about different categories. How much of this is about fertility?
How much of this is about Kenworth? How much of that,
of this Sabet structural oppression, how much of this is about path dependence?
You do some very careful thing in order to understand your
problem. And only when you'd finally understood your problem, would you say,
okay, now I have an idea of how to remediate it.
We need a financial product that transfers money from late life to early life,
because the huge burden that knocks women out of the stem pipeline might be,
uh, that they have to take care of elderly parents or young kids. Bingo. Now,
now you're working in a totally different idiom because you've,
you've actually come up with a different idea or for example, um, if,
if you make, if you hard coat like Sean Carroll,
I think just had a podcast in which he said something to the effect of well on
the IDW is kind of in to interested in race and IQ.
I have never been interested in race and IQ.
The only time I became interested in race and IQ was when I started hearing.
There is absolutely no variation between groups and, you know,
in any kind of, uh, cognitive endowment. Well,
certainly there is in terms of height, the ability to radiate heat, melon,
unkind, and attend to the skinny ability to absorb sunlight.
It doesn't pass the smell test that you could be able to say that a priori
it's just, it's not a scientific type statement.
It's something you'd have to investigate.
So in that situation, am I interested in,
in some finding that says that one group is smarter and other groups are not as
smart, do I believe that IQ equals smartness? No,
I don't believe IQ equals smartness. Do I believe that there's no cultural bias?
I think there is cultural bias. I, you know, I've,
I'm definitely on record of saying, um,
there are ways in which groups that are S are said to, uh,
fare less well in terms of IQ, uh, demonstrate actual intellectual dominance.
This is some rich, weird area I've never cared about before.
And the only reason that it becomes interesting to me, um,
is that suddenly we're,
we're making these incredible proclamations with certainty. Like,
you know, you can't say this word or this is absolutely true. And like,
life doesn't work like that. There's no word in the English language.
George Carlin made this point all the time. There are no bad words.
There's bad intent. They're bad people.
Well, isn't it also the issue being a part of a group say more
IDW is too interested in race and IQ. I'm not,
I'm not who is, I mean, I'm really not. I don't discuss that at all.
I understand, but who, who is interest? Sam Harris has discussed it before,
but he discussed it with someone who was studying. I don't.
Think Sam,
I think that Sam felt that he had Sam felt the Charles Murray had been
railroaded by him by he Sam Harris.
And then as Sam came to understand what it is like to have a mob turn on you,
Sam said, maybe I'm wrong about Charles Murray.
And then as recline made this really interesting point in a really unfair way
against Sam, which was basically like, Hey,
you don't know what Charles Murray is. He's a hybrid.
He's not just a social scientist. He's also got an agenda.
Right? Is that accurate? I think so. I've never read Mary's work,
but I don't know enough to say either, but I believe polarizing,
I think bell curve,
the whole idea about being able to recognize the
differences in gender and race and IQ. It's like,
it's a very contentious subject, both analyze all.
I mean, look, I have to admit that I don't score that well on certain tests.
So I have a built in total skepticism
of IQ tests, sat, tests, act tests,
any kind of test.
Because it's an unnatural examination.
It just isn't what is it? It's a proxy. Like there are people who think, oh,
it's a really good proxy.
I've never met someone who has a really high IQ though,
that I deemed to be intellectually inferior.
Yeah. But I've met people who don't have very high IQs who just blow me away.
Yes.
Right. Well, there's absolutely. There's a type of intelligence.
A certain people possess, particularly creative intelligence. Yeah.
There's a creative.
And like there's certain people that men might not score well on sat tests,
but they're capable of producing amazing stuff. Whether it's literature, comedy,
whatever, whatever it is, movies, they can make things. They can do things.
They have a genius in their ability.
And that requires some intelligence.
It requires some immeasurable that something that you can't put on a scale.
I mean, you know, I said to Jordan.
I said, Jordan Peterson. I said, I don't think I have an IQ because the conceit,
we have to remember that a priori,
we would always have guessed that I T intelligence was many different things.
It was a composite of like lots of different types of intelligence. Right.
The concede around IQ is you'd think that was true. But guess again,
there's essentially one kind of intelligence. There's one scale.
It's a surprise. Oh, that's, that's really surprising.
Tell me something of the various forms of intelligence is one of the things that
you call intelligence processing. Yes. Yes. Processing is very important.
Okay. I don't score well on processing. In fact,
I don't think anyone in my family has ever scored well on what do you mean by
processing? Uh, some kind of, um,
mechanical process of how quickly and flawlessly you can encode information,
play with it and get it out. You know,
like if you're a dyslexic is let's take spelling.
Lots of people on Twitter say, ha ha you misspelled here. Uh,
in fact it's H E R in the case that you meant it really just shows me something
about your intelligence that you can't keep track of spelling. Okay.
That's your level of thought?
Do you happen to know how many brilliant people can't, can't spell? Can't write.
Well also you're not even thinking.
You're just trying to get the word out and you miss step. Yeah.
But like my mind, you know, at some point I got sent home,
I think because I was asked to draw chicken in school and I put two wings and
four feet on it. I'm so non observant. My, my, my handwriting.
Sent home. Yeah. Something like this. They sent you home.
Yeah. I was like abberant or, you know,
I was making fun of the teacher cause it was for like famously Mrs. Buckero in
first grade sent me out of the class because I said that a spider wasn't an
insect because it had eight legs and that she sent you out of class and because
I was well you're correct. In that case, I was in the case of a chicken.
I wasn't, but.
Well maybe saw some weird Chernobyl chicken. Yeah, yeah. Man. Turn.
Chernobyl chicken, chicken Kiev. That's good. That's comedy goal.
My point,
my point being that if you don't have a high confidence in net normal
metrics, the race and IQ discussion doesn't land.
So you get back to Charles Martin. Yeah. So Charles Murray.
It is it, but it's hard to say he.
Wrote the bell curve, right. Uh,
was either dismissed as being racist
or applauded by people who you would call white nationalists,
who tried out his ideas as proof as measurable
proof that certain races are superior. And you know,
we could discuss the [inaudible] online people who trot
those out all the time and they use it to form these weird groups of
people that love to hear that. Right. And that smacks of racist.
This is the issue, which is.
You have a situation in which he appeared to heavy political
orientation, which is that he didn't want money spent in certain ways.
And he wanted it spent in others. There,
there was an political interpretation of why he
wanted that bill, which was maybe he's a closet racist.
Then there was facts that will tend to empower people who
are actually racist.
All right. But let me pause you there. Sure.
But then there's the actual data right now in examining the actual data.
If you just at the actual data, is,
is it racist to look at the, the real numbers?
Like if you say Nigerians in particular who are incredibly industrious and some
of the more, um,
successful immigrant groups that come over to America also happened to be black.
If you wanted to look at Nigerians in terms of like, if you wanted to, if you,
if you, if all, if you, if you wanted to look at them,
particularly as a group would be very difficult to be racist, you'd have to say,
well, this, these are superior. A lot of superior intellects come from Nigeria.
They also trot out the Asian one, right? That like this,
one of the weird things that people like to show that they're not racist.
Like look at shows. Asians are of a superior IQ. Aye, aye,
aye. Puzzle on that one that one's puzzling say more because I
think with certain people with certain males,
let's just go with males,
they look at African-Americans and they see
superiority in, in certain ways they see superiority,
athletically, artistically, musically.
You can look at the contributions of
African-Americans culturally across the board in terms of like the real, the,
the Jimmy Hendrix, the speed miles Davis speed of thought.
And creativity like analytic.
Well, not just that also athletically like the,
the outliers are just so many. There's so many Michael Jordan's, Mike Tyson,
sugar, Ray Leonard's there's so many African-American outliers who were just
extraordinary in terms of their accomplishments. Right.
But not that many Asian Americans in that regard.
So it's almost like they'll concede,
like they're not doing the things that make me jealous.
Do you see what I'm saying? They're not, they're not creating this insane music,
although there are a few, right.
But overall they're not creating these insane athletic accomplishments that
these white Americans can't keep up with. So we'll say, but look,
they're superior intellectually. So I can't be racist.
I am pointing out that these Asians who I'm not jealous of,
because they don't do the things that I wish that I could do.
But then when it comes to the African-Americans,
you're there pointing out all the things that the African-Americans can do that
they can't do. But they're saying all, but they're intellectually inferior.
Whether this is proven, oh, I'm not racist. I don't want this to be true,
but it seems to be true. I see. You see what I'm saying? It's like a way of,
it's a way of suppressing accomplishment, right?
While like almost mitigating the impact of the, the,
the jealousy that they feel.
If you think about, for example, first, does that make sense? I think so. Um,
first of all, I just, I hate this topic.
Yeah. It's a weird topic. Cause it's a weird topic.
It feels greasy even touching it well.
But now we have to write like this. I feel like
my wrong view of it is if you'd never brought this thing up,
we would never have had to deal with it.
And I no longer believe that's true because we have so much inadvertent data,
right? Like I don't want the data on chess.
We have an idea of how many grand masters there are in which groups like male,
female, Asian, black, you know, various portions of Europe.
I don't know what that data means,
but I can't stop the data because it's going to be generated.
Even if nobody comes up with a standardized test because it's a game and it's
scored and it has something to do with intellectual abilities. Right.
On the other hand, I mean, I'm a competitive guy and I, I, um, you,
you do comedy. I do some, some amount of music. Uh,
I can guarantee you that both of us have had our kicked at some point.
My African-Americans who Excel in both of these areas. And I don't mean, um,
you know, all God's children got rid of them. I mean, getting out funk, uh,
in a competitive situation, um, you know,
looking over somebody's shoulder on the keyboard and they're thinking so quickly
and in so many dimensions, I can't even imagine what the hell is going on.
Right. So therefore I never had a lot of fear about it because I, you know, I'm,
I'm in close proximity with somebody who's just kicking my.
And um,
therefore I thought I could leave these topics alone.
I would never have to deal with it the way in which that they come up, you know,
in a way that is really unpleasant is this new thing,
which is that all imbalances are all structural oppression. Right.
And which doesn't allow for trade-offs between groups like fins,
fins are good at some things they're not good at others.
Nobody believes in like anti finished prejudice. So we don't think about it.
Right. It's just not a, it's not a big issue for us, you know, Finnish humor.
How many finished comedians are there have no idea. Right. Well,
how many do you run into at the comedy store?
That's a bad, it's a bad example because you're dealing with America,
America in American comedy.
And also you're also dealing with the highest level of the game. It's like,
you know,
the comedy store is essentially like the it's like the Harvard research
labs of stand-up comedy.
Yeah. But something like
nobody's worried about anti finished behavior.
We're worried that we're prejudiced against certain groups.
We're worried that we're prejudiced against Jews.
We're worried that we're prejudice against Mexicans, against blacks.
We have a pretty clean idea of what bigotry we really
still need to worry about and we feel guilty about it.
And that's why you say it has this kind of lubricious quality to it.
Like what are you really up to over there? Well,
why are you looking at that dataset? Right. And what my comment is,
is I don't know how to stop this thing. I'm not excited about it.
I'm not interested in it.
I definitely think that we have to actually think about the social implications
of all of these things. But if your,
if your idea is that we're to stop this at the level of data and analysis,
I can't afford that. I just can't afford that.
We need to have somebody who's able, like for example, microcephaly,
you've got people with smaller heads than the rest of us,
maybe because of the Zika virus. Well, is it,
is it unethical to study what the cognitive impairment due to microcephaly is?
Right. I don't know. I don't know what to do,
but I know that I want to have a very thoughtful conference. Well, how.
Can it be?
How can it be unethical to study the cognitive impairment of someone who's in
effect affected by a disease? And that could possibly help fund research,
help fund preventative measures with.
Smaller heads and cognitive impairment, you know? And like,
what if somebody's like, let's take mosaic down syndrome,
mosaic down syndrome doesn't have the same profile as regular down syndrome.
You get much higher functioning people. Right? I mean,
ultimately we're all souls and we have to figure it dignity.
And we have to figure out some system by which we can live with this increased
level of knowledge, but does.
Examining impairment. Right.
But does that really mean that it's a prejudiced? Like what,
what about an examining impairment from people who've been injured?
Should we avoid doing that? Because we don't want to be able list.
Um, do you see what I'm saying? Not quick, cause we're talking about reality,
right? We're talking about issues. If you're,
if you're examining someone who contracted the Zika virus and it led to
them developing a smaller head,
which is one of the horrible side effects of that, right?
It is examining that in some way,
some sort of prejudice should be avoid examining their cognitive impairment.
We avoid.
Examining it. We might do some damage.
If we examine it and publish the findings, we might do D do D I mean,
does he want to.
Say he might do damage to the people that are infected.
Look or a flick?
If we don't begin with an idea that ultimately the issue is
compassion for ourselves and others and that a lot of
our genetics and our history history predisposes us to bad behavior.
And now that we're living with each other,
like we have to start as hippy-dippy as a sound,
we have to start from a place of love and decency. Right.
I certainly agree. But I think that we should avoid. Yeah, well that's,
this is the thing, right?
Yeah. So now I have this other thing,
which is reality is compassionate in and of itself.
Remember when HIV was an equal opportunity disease and it just started in the
gay community and it's going to jump the fire road and it's going to be as much
a heterosexual problem as it was a homosexual problem that turned out not to be
true.
It was an ideological statement that didn't look at the differences between
different kinds of epithelium and different sexual practices between gays and
straights. It was a, it was a,
an activist position that started to compete with a
epidemiological position or a biological position.
And so historically we did is we had private expert
communication. Um,
and it's not always clear that you can trust your experts.
It's not always clear that you should start with the data.
What if the data says terrible things like maybe the data on people with
microcephaly, um,
says something and you have got a person who's going to be judged by the size of
their head, which is visibly off from the rest of their body. You know, we, we,
haven't taken up the challenge of our time, which is okay,
we've got a lot more information than we wanted,
and we have a lot more ability to analyze it.
And we know something about ourselves.
We know that we have got bigotry as part of our, our makeup.
And we know that, um,
we're not really good at certain ways of integrating information and not,
you know, becoming triumphalist and jerkish about it.
And taking victory laps as if it's a competition,
like my groups better than your group. Right? So that's where we're stuck. Now.
I want to be struggling with other people are saying, look,
I don't know what the answers are. I don't think, you know,
as I brought up before,
I don't think east Africans are cheating in the Boston marathon because they've
come to dominate it just because, you know,
suddenly you had a diverse group of people, uh,
replaced by a very tiny group from Ethiopia and Kenya. We are,
we are behaving as you would expect when compassionate
people who recognize that they have been bigoted and structurally
oppressive encounter data, that they can't handle,
which the science is giving us more data than we ever wanted on these things.
And we're not answering the challenge of our time. And that's what my issue is.
Social justice is it's not about,
I don't want a better planet or a more inclusive planet.
It's like stop crowding out the really difficult,
interesting open-hearted and hardheaded conversation with
this dime store nonsense about simple answers and simple,
simple truths,
because those aren't true and it's not going to work in the longterm. I mean,
I guess that's maybe the idea is we're competing with social justice
for the rights to try to come up with a better,
more equitable future and the complaint about it.
Isn't you guys are trying to come up with a better, more equitable future.
It's what if you're going to make the same mistake when we said, well,
the heterosexuals are as much at risk as the homosexual. Well, that wasn't true.
We needed to devote resources to our homosexual community and we did
need to get the heterosexual community interested and we had a problem and we
needed to think about, you know, very thoughtfully, we've got an epidemic,
that's killing people. Okay.